Hello everyone, this is Marios
Michailidis, and this will be the first
video in a series that we will be
discussing on ensemble methods for
machine learning.
To tell you a bit about me, I work as
Research Data Scientist for H2Oai.
In fact,
my PhD is about assemble methods, and
they used to be ranked
number one in cargo and
ensemble methods have greatly
helped me to achieve this spot.
So you might find the course interesting.
So what is ensemble modelling?
I think with this term, we refer to
combining many different machine learning
models in order to get
a more powerful prediction.
And later on we will see
examples that this happens,
that we combine different models and
we do get better predictions.
There are various ensemble methods.
Here we'll discuss a few, those that
we encounter quite often, in predictive
modelling competitions, and they tend
to be, in general, quite competitive.
We will start with simple averaging
methods, then we'll go to weighted
averaging methods, and we will also
examine conditional averaging.
And then we will move to some more
typical ones like bagging, or
the very, very popular, boosting,
then stacking and StackNet,
which is the result of my research.
But as I said,
these will be a series of videos, and
we will initially start
with the averaging methods.
So, in order to help you understand
a bit more about the averaging methods,
let's take an example.
Let's say we have a variable called age,
as in age years,
and we try to predict this.
We have a model that yields prediction for
age.
Let's assume that
the relationship between the two,
the actual age in our prediction,
looks like in the graph, as in the graph.
So you can see that the model boasts
quite a higher square of a value of 0.91,
but it doesn't do so
well in the whole range of values.
So when age is less than 50,
the model actually does quite well.
But when age is more than 50,
you can see that the average
error is higher.
Now let's take another example.
Let's assume we have a second model
that also tries to predict age,
but this one looks like that.
As you can see, this model does quite
well when age is higher than 50,
but not so well when age is less than 50,
nevertheless, it scores again 0.91.
So we have two models that have
a similar predictive power,
but they look quite different.
It's quite obvious that they do
better in different parts of
the distribution of age.
So what will happen if we
were to try to combine
this two with a simple averaging method,
in other words,
just say (model 1 + model two) / 2,
so a simple averaging method.
The end result will look
as in the new graph.
So, our square has moved to 0.95,
which is a considerable
improvement versus the 0.91 we had before,
and as you can see,
on average, the points tend to
be closer with the reality.
So the average error is smaller.
However, as you can see, the model doesn't
do better as an individual models for
the areas where the models
were doing really well,
nevertheless, it does better on average.
This is something we need to understand,
that there is potentially a better
way to combine these models.
We could try to take a weighting average.
So say, I'm going to take 70% of
the first model prediction and
30% of the second model prediction.
In other words,
(model 1x0.7 + model 2x0.3),
and the end result would
look as in the graph.
So you can see their square is no better
and that makes sense, because the models
have quite similar predictive power and
it doesn't make sense to rely more in one.
And also it is quite clear that
it looks more with model 1,
because it has better predictions
when age is less than 50,
and worse predictions
when age is more than 50.
As a theoretical exercise, what is the
theoretical best we could get out of this?
We know we have a model that scores
really well when age is less than 50,
and another model that scores really
well when age is more than 50.
So ideally, we would like to
get to something like that.
This is how we leverage the two
models in the best possible way
here by using a simple
conditioning method.
So if less than 50 is one I'll just
use the other, and we will see later
on that there are ensemble methods
that are very good at finding these
relationships of two or more predictions
in respect to the target variable.
But, this will be a topic for
another discussion.
Here we discuss simple averaging methods,
hopefully you found it useful, and
stay here for the next session to come.
Thank you very much.